This is the author's version of an article that has been published in this journal. Changes were made to this version by the publisher prior to publication. The final version of record is available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TSC.2014.2310213

A Framework for Composing SOAP, Non-SOAP and Non-Web Services
Jonathan Lee, Shin-Jie Lee, and Ping-Feng Wang
Abstract--Recently, there is a trend on developing mobile applications based on service-oriented architecture in numerous application domains, such as telematics and smart home. Although efforts have been made on developing composite SOAP services, little emphasis has been put on invoking and composing a combination of SOAP, non-SOAP, and non-web services into a composite process to execute complex tasks on various mobile devices. Main challenges are two-fold: one is how to invoke and compose heterogeneous web services with various protocols and content types, including SOAP, RESTful, and OSGi services; and the other is how to integrate non-web services, like Web contents and mobile applications, into a composite service process. In this work, we propose an approach to invoking and composing SOAP, non-SOAP, and non-web services with two key features: an extended BPEL engine bundled with adapters to enable direct invocation and composition of SOAP, RESTful and OSGi services based on Adapter pattern; and two transformation mechanisms devised to enable conversion of Web contents and Android activities into OSGi services. In the experimental evaluations, we demonstrate network traffic and turnaround time of our approach are better than those of the traditional ones. Index Terms--Heterogeneous service composition, web service, service composition engine.


I NTRODUCTION

Recently, there is a trend on developing mobile applications based on service-oriented architecture (SOA) in numerous application domains, such as telematics [1], business [2], smart home [3][4] and internet of things (IOT) [5]. In IOT, for example, heterogeneous web services are supposed to be integrated to provide composite services. These heterogeneous services may include Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) [22] services, RESTful services [29], and OSGi services [30]. SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information during the implementation of web services, and SOAP services can be employed to build composite web services using Business Process Execution Language (BPEL) [6]. RESTful services are also considered an architectural style that can be used to construct software for clients to request services. An increasing number of Internet services have been developed as RESTful services to provide easier interfaces for displaying object features and communicating with external services. OSGi technology provides an open service platform for service installation, activation, and management in devices. OSGi services support point-to-point remote service delivery programs that enable dynamical binding, assembly, and execution of device services. Although efforts have been made on developing composite SOAP services [6][7], little emphasis has been put on invoking and composing a combination of SOAP,
Jonathan Lee is with Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taiwan, email:jlee@csie.ntu.edu.tw. Shin-Jie Lee is with Computer and Network Center, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, email: jielee@mail.ncku.edu.tw. Ping-Feng Wang is with Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan, email: 93542011@cc.ncu.edu.tw

non-SOAP, and non-web services into a composite process in order to complete complex tasks on a variety of mobile devices. The challenges can be best explained from the following two perspectives:
How to invoke and compose heterogeneous web services with various protocols and content types, such as SOAP, RESTful, and OSGi services? A composite process may involve invocations of SOAP, RESTful and OSGi services over SOAP protocol, HTTP and Java method call, respectively. In addition, it also involves a variety of message content types, such as SOAP, JSON, YAML, Protocol Buffer and Java objects, in composing the heterogeneous web services. How to integrate non-web services, including Web contents and mobile applications, into a composite web service process? Non-web services in a mobile environment typically consist of Web contents and mobile applications. Web contents are usually in the form of HTML documents. The program execution entry points of mobile applications are usually developed as GUI components, e.g., Activities in Android platform. Both of these two non-web services are difficult to be composed by a service composition engine, like a BPEL engine.

In this work, we propose a framework for invoking and composing SOAP, non-SOAP and non-web services on mobile devices with two key features: a BPEL engine extended and bundled with adapters to enable the direct invocation and composition of SOAP, RESTful and OSGi services based on Adapter pattern, which provides a flexible mechanism for adding newly developed adapters for invoking some other kinds of

Copyright (c) 2014 IEEE. Personal use is permitted. For any other purposes, permission must be obtained from the IEEE by emailing pubspermissions@ieee.org.

