LEE AND HSU: GEA: A GOAL-DRIVEN APPROACH TO DISCOVERING EARLY ASPECTS

589

TABLE 1 Relationships between Use Cases and Goals

TABLE 2 Numerical Score for the Relationships between Goals and Use Cases of the Meeting Scheduler System

sum of interaction degrees between goals in a goal cluster. That is, the interaction degree of the to-be-grouped goal cluster is compared with goals/goal clusters before actually performing the grouping procedure to serve as a criteria for the validation of the formation of the clustering. In the end of the clustering, if there is no more grouping procedure can be processed, goal clusters can then be obtained. In Early-Aspect-Identification, as a result of each round of the clustering, it is possible that multiple groupings can occur due to a same similarity degree, which causes each of these groupings to continue to derive its own cluster matrices with respect to each round of the clustering until there is no more goals/goal clusters to be grouped. In the end, it is likely that there will be multiple groupings of goals/goal clusters. Early aspectual candidates can be identified based on the frequency of the occurrence of a specific goal cluster appearing in all groupings. It is up to the developers to set a threshold to determine how strong the likelihood is of an early aspectual candidate containing an early aspect. The higher the threshold set by the developers, the less the number of early aspects we will obtain, and vice versa.

To better model the relationships among use cases and goals, two membership functions are proposed for representing the satisfying and denying degrees of goals with respect to use cases from two viewpoints: satisfying and denying. They are defined as Definition 1. Let uSatðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ be a membership function for describing the satisfying degree with respect to a rating x of the base set X (i.e., from À5 to 5). Then, & uSatðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ ¼ 0; 0:2x; if x < 0; if x ! 0:

where uSatðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ represents the degree that goal Gj is satisuSatðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ 1. fied by use cases Ui wrt score x and 0 Definition 2. Let uDenðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ be a membership function for describing the denying degree with respect to a rating x of the base set X (i.e., from À5 to 5). Then, & uDenðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ ¼ 0:2x; 0; if x 0; if x > 0:

Classification: Evaluate the Relationships among Use Cases and Goals The first step in the classification phase is to evaluate the relationships among goals and use cases, in which the effect of performing a use case to its directly associated goal, including achieved, ceased, impaired, optimized, realized, or maintained, and to all other goals, called side effects, are considered. A pairwise evaluation of how a use case affects a goal is adopted. The evaluation of the achievement of a goal is rated from À5 to 5 to represent the degree to which the goal is achieved while performing a use case. The score can be given by following Table 1 as suggested in Satty's work [34]. A similar scoring strategy is also adapted in Brito's work [35] as Satty's scale is based on psychological theories and experiments that point to the use of nine unit scales as a reasonable set that allows humans to perform discrimination between preferences for two items. In Table 1, 5 means the goal can be fully satisfied by a use case; À5 means the goal is fully denied by a use case; and 0 means a use case does not have any effect on the goal. Details of the rating of satisfaction degree can be found in Table 1.

3.2

where uSatðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ represents the degree that goal Gj is denied uDenðUi ;Gj Þ ðxÞ 1. by use cases Ui wrt score x and 0 In the meeting scheduler system, the relationships among goals and use cases are evaluated in a pairwise manner based on Table 1. For example, goal GMP (meeting planned) not only can be achieved by the use case UPAM (plan a meeting), but can also be achieved by the use case URAM (replan a meeting); therefore, a score of 4 is given to indicate that the goal GMP can be largely to fully satisfied by the side effect of performing URAM . By applying the membership functions, we can obtain the satisfying degree between GMP and URAM as uSatðURAM ;GMP Þ ð4Þ ¼ 0.8 and denying degree uDenðURAM ;GMP Þ ð4Þ ¼ 0, which is paired as a tuple ÀðuSatðURAM ;GMP Þ ð4Þ; uDenðURAM ;GMP Þ ð4ÞÞ ¼ (0.8, 0). Another example is that goal GMI (min: interactions) is partially to largely denied by use case URAM (replan a meeting) since replanning a meeting increases the frequency of communication among participants, which results in a negative number of rating, À2. The result of the evaluation of relationships is shown in Table 2. By applying the membership functions to the

