LEE AND HSU: GEA: A GOAL-DRIVEN APPROACH TO DISCOVERING EARLY ASPECTS

597

TABLE 6 Number of Early Aspectual Candidates Found by Participants

Fig. 12. Goal-grouping-strength indicator.

also indicate that potential early aspectual candidates offer developers numerous opportunities to discover early aspects in a target system in order to overcome one of the deficiencies of traditional aspect-oriented approaches that few concerns can be separated in the discovery process as mentioned in [9]. The aspect-crosscutting-modularity indicator is defined as the relationship between the number of goals in a goal cluster and the number of goal clusters. Figure [32] shows the number of goals in a goal cluster across all groupings of goals during the experiment conducted by 30 software developers. For example, the peak at 130 shown in Fig. 13 stands for the total number of goal clusters with two goals conducted by all developers. Similarly, the 0 located at 27 in the x-axis means that there does not exist a goal cluster with 27 goals conducted by all developers. It is noted that peaks at 130 (with two goals) or 19 (with three goals) or 29 (with four goals) imply that the goal clusters containing those goals can be treated as candidates of modules since goals in a goal cluster either behave similarly or have higher degrees of being achieved by associated use cases. This indicator illustrates that our proposed approach provides a better modularity insight in the analysis and design phases of software development which is considered as an important criteria for evaluating an aspect-oriented approach as mentioned in [29]. Table 6 shows the number of early aspectual candidates discovered by the P, S, and E groups, meanwhile P and S groups are further attached with different percentage thresholds for determining early aspectual candidates. The key question is that: "Is the difference between with GEA and without GEA statistically significant?". To

Fig. 13. Aspect-crosscutting-modularity indicator.

answer this question, three pairs of groups are established for the purpose of comparison by performing Mann-Whitney U-test. In (P versus E) and (S versus E), a null hypothesis H0 is stated as "There is no statistical difference between the number of early aspectual candidates found with GEA and without GEA". The research hypothesis HA is "There is a statistical difference between the number of early aspectual candidates found with GEA and without GEA". We use the commonly accepted value of a ¼ 0.05 to obtain the critical value 64 for the two pairs of groups with 15 data samples in each group. In other words, there is a 95 percent chance that the statistical findings are real and not due to chance. In (P versus E), two types of results are obtained. When the threshold used for determining the early aspectual candidates is set to 60 percent or above, the U value is less than 60.5, which is smaller than the critical value 64 and therefore the null hypothesis H0 is rejected. When the threshold is set to 55 percent or below, the U value 65 is larger than the critical value and therefore the null hypothesis H0 is accepted. Similar results are obtained in (S versus E). It rejects the null hypothesis H0 when the threshold is set to 70 percent (U value is 61) or above and accepts the null hypothesis H0 when the threshold is set to 60 percent (U value is 65.5) or below. In (P versus S), we would like to find out: "Is the difference between the results performed by different people with GEA statistically significant?". The null hypothesis H0 is stated as "There is no statistical difference between the numbers of early aspectual candidates found by people with the help of GEA". The research hypothesis HA is "There is a statistical difference between the numbers of early aspectual candidates found by people with the help of GEA". We use a ¼ 0.05 to obtain the critical value 64 for (P versus S) group. The U value for pair (P versus S) ranges from 97.5 at threshold 100 percent to 122 at threshold 0 percent, which accepts the null hypothesis H0 and indicates that there is no statistical difference between the numbers of early aspectual candidates found by P and S groups with GEA. Based on the results of performing Mann-Whitney U-test, we have the following findings: It is statistical significance between the numbers of discovered early aspectual

