J. Lee et al.: A Possibilistic Petri-Nets-Based Service Matchmaker for Multi-Agent System Architecture

213

location that a service agent resides. - agentName refers the name of the service agent in the agent community. - hasTasks stores a list of instances of Task. Task: The class Task is used to present a task performed by a service agent. When carrying out a service, the service agent may perform many tasks by communicating with the request agents. It has a property called tokens only. - taskName describes the name of a task. - tokens keeps a list of instances of the class Token. Token: The class Token is a subclass of Input_Varible or Output_Varible. The instances of Token are related to the input or output variables used in the specific service profile ontology. The service agents perform the tasks through these tokens to achieve the services published. WSDLGrounding: To distinguish from the agent grounding, the class WSDLGrounding is to indicate that the service is provided by a web service. This grounding contains the following attributes: WebURL, WsdlURL and InstructionURL. - WsdlURL keeps the references to the WSDL documents of the web service. - WebURL is related to the front-end web site of the web service. Through the web site, user can use the backend services directly. - InstructionURL stores the references of the instruction description documents of web services that prohibit a web site from being accessed directly. The instruction description is a DAML-S process model like language in helping describe how an agent can access it automatically. If the matched services are web services, the request agents can get the WSDL and the instruction description documents, parse them to find related information, and access the web services via SOAP messages.

Yao-Chiang Wang is a PhD student in the Computer Science and Information Engineering at National Central University (NCU) in Taiwan. His research interests are in service-oriented computing and software engineering, including service matchmaking, quality of service, service monitoring, and agent technology. He received his B.S. degree in Computer Science and Information Engineering from National Central University, Jhongli City, Taiwan. Contact him at solo@selab.csie.ncu.edu.tw. Chia-Ling Wu received his B.S. degree in Computer Science and Information Engineering from National Chiao Tung University (NCTU) in Taiwan, in 1999. He is currently a Ph.D. student in the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering of National Central University. His research interests include agent-based software engineering, service-oriented computing, requirements engineering and development process modeling. Shin-Jie Lee received his B.S. degree in Mathematics from National Changhua University of Education, Taiwan, in 2000. He is currently a Ph.D. student in the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering of National Central University. His current research interests include agent-based software engineering, service-oriented computing, and software engineering. Shang-Pin Ma is a PhD student in the Computer Science and Information Engineering at National Central University (NCU) in Taiwan. His research interests are in service-oriented computing and software engineering, focusing on software composition. He was project coordinator of SIM project (Service-oriented Information Marketplace), that is sponsored by Ministry of Economic Affairs in Taiwan, from 2003 to 2004. He received a BS in Computer Science and Information Engineering from National Central University, Jhongli City, Taiwan. Whan-Yo Deng is a PhD Student in the Computer Science and Information Engineering at National Central University (NCU) in Taiwan. His research interests include service-oriented computing and software engineering with computational intelligence. He is the member of Taiwan Software Engineering Association.

Jonathan Lee is a professor in the Computer Science and Information Engineering at National Central University (NCU) in Taiwan, and was the department chairman from 1999 to 2002. He is currently the director of Software Research Center at NCU. His research interests include agent-based software engineering, service-oriented computing, and software engineering with computational intelligence. He received -his Ph.D in 'computer science from Texas A&M University in 1993. He is the president of Taiwan Software Engineering Association, a senior member of the IEEE Computer Society and a member of the ACM.

