International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 7, No. 4, December 2005

199

A Possibilistic Petri-Nets-Based Service Matchmaker for Multi-Agents System Architecture
Jonathan Lee, Yao-Chiang Wang, Chia-Ling Wu, Shin-Jie Lee, Shung-Pin Ma and Whan-Yo Deng
However, several key challenges remain to be addressed in order to reach the wide adoption and routine use of agent technology in the Internet - an open environment that serves as one of the main pushers behind the research and development of MAS and web applications: How to facilitate the discovery of Internet-based services? The amount of Internet-based services, including deployed software agents and web services, is increasing in an exponential fashion. Moreover, these services together with their communication links and information sources may appear and disappear dynamically in the Internet.H How to increase the interoperability among Internet-based services? With the advent of web infrastructure via the development of various web service standards such as SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) [5], WSDL (Web Service Description Language) [8], and UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery and Integration) [4], different service applications and information sources can be composed independently. Through this interoperability, businesses should be able to utilize and compose these services more flexibly and dynamically in performing their Internet-based services. In this paper, we propose a Service-oriented Architecture for Multi-agents (called SAM) as an attempt towards the construction of an MAS infrastructure that can better integrate agents, web applications and information sources. We begin with the devise of a service matchmaker based on the formation of possibilistic reasoning [18], and an extension of our previous work on a PPN-based agent service description language (PPN-ASDL) [19] by means of DAML-based ontology and services description, then proliferate to the integration of web infrastructure with the SAM-ASDL translator that utilizes our newly-defined tModels for UDDI registry, and finally conceive the notion of composite service agents capable of the composition of agents, web applications and information resources as an experimental scenario. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Numbers of infrastructures and mechanisms designed for service matching and heterogeneous environments

Abstract
The focus of this paper is to devise a service-oriented architecture for multi-agents system (called SAM), to reach a wide adoption and routine use of agents, web services, and semantic web technologies. In order to better integrate agents, web applications and information sources in an open and distributed environment such as the Internet, a service matchmaker called middle agent is responsible for registering and spotting services in SAM. In the making of the service matchmaker there are four components involved: (1) a possibilistic Petri-nets (PPN) based service matchmaking mechanism for discovering services, (2) a service description language based on PPN for describing agent services and web services, (3) a set of ontologies for facilitating the semantic matchmaking, and (4) newly-defined extension mechanisms for bridging the linkage between web service standards and the service matchmaker through a translator. KeywordPossibilistic Petri-Nets, Multi-Agent System, Web Service, Agent Service Description Language, Service Matchmaker, UDDI Extensions, UDDI Browser.

1. Introduction
It is widely recognized that multi-agent systems (MASs) have attracted increasing attention not only as a scientific discipline, but more importantly as a software engineering paradigm for building commercially viable and innovative applications [12, 16, 21, 25]. Consequently, a considerable number of researches have reported progress towards the formation of theories on the modeling of MAS infrastructures. (e.g. IMPACT [3], InfoSleuth [7], RETSINA [25], OAA [20], DECAF [13] and etc.)

Corresponding Author: Jonathan Lee is with Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Central University, Taoyuan 320, Taiwan. Email: yjlee@selab.csie.ncu.edu.tw

