J. Lee et al.: A Possibilistic Petri-Nets-Based Service Matchmaker for Multi-Agent System Architecture

203

agents for the request agents in an open environment are considered as middle agents. Service matchmaking is the process of locating an appropriate service for a request agent through the matchmaking mechanism resided in a middle agent. A traditional matchmaking process for MAS proposed by Katia Sycara et al. [9, 30] usually includes the following steps: (1) service agents publish their advertisements to the middle agent, (2) the middle agent stores these advertisements, (3) request agents ask the middle agent to locate and connect to service agents with desired services, (4) the middle agent matches the request against the stored advertisements and returns the results, and (5) the request agent communicates with the corresponding service agents and decides whether to subscribe to their services or not. In order to integrate the agent technology with web services environment in a seamless fashion in SAM, we have extended this framework along four dimensions: To integrate web services into the service matchmaking, the middle agent utilizes an ASDL translator to gather web services from the UDDI registry. This UDDI registry applies the newly-defined tModels to annotate the web services with data about the features designed in SAM. Through this mechanism, the middle agent is capable of matchmaking web services for agents. To increase the flexibility of SAM, the request agent itself not only can request services from other service agents but also from the web services published in UDDI registry. In the design of request agent, a special document describing the process model of operations is taken into account in helping the request agent interact with a web service automatically. To provide a uniform service request and delivery mechanism, a web server bridges the users and the multi agents system in SAM. Queries issued by users are converted into a service request and sent to the request agent. Service results returned from service agents or web services are then sent back by the request agent and delivered to the users by the web server. To improve the interoperability of services involved in SAM, service agents may be considered as wrappers to interact with the back-end web services via SOAP messages or other legacy systems. Moreover, the composite service agents can cooperate with multiple service agents and web services according to the domain knowledge to provide better service usages for the user. In the following sections, we will elaborate in-depth the design and implementation of middle agents. Besides,

the interoperability with web service standards and scenarios of demonstration are also given.

4. Middle Agents: PPN-Based Service Matchmakers
In an MAS, the agents called middle agents are capable of registering service profiles published by service agents and spotting appropriate service providers for the request agents to answer to a request issued by the user. After performing service matchmaking, request agents process the matched service advertisements returned by middle agent to contact with the desired services. The tenet of the proposed MAS, namely SAM, is an extended service matchmaking mechanism resided in the middle agent with the following main features (see figure2).

Figure 2. Overall Architecture of Middle Agent

A matchmaking engine based on Possibilistic Petri-Nets (PPN, see section 4.1): The PPN Matchmaking Engine matches the services, published by agents or web service providers, for request agents by using the SAM-ASDL (see section 4.2). The matchmaking engine extends and implements the PPN-ASDL matching algorithm [19]. The DAML+OIL [15] related ontologies (see section 4.3) are stored inside the middle agent. An inference engine utilizes these DAML+OIL ontologies to help the matchmaking engine perform semantic matchmaking. SAM-ASDL service profile registries: The SAM-ASDL profile registries are made for storing the SAM-ASDL profiles. In order to distinguish the service types, service profiles advertised by service agents are stored in Agent Service Profile Registry, and service profiles found from the UDDI registry through the SAM-ASDL translator are stored in Web Service Profile Registry. When performing service matchmaking, the middle agent will search profiles registered in the SAM-ASDL service

