204

International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 7, No. 4, December 2005

profile registries first. If there is no service matched, the service query can further be processed through directly searching public UDDI registries and register the newly found web services back to its registries. SAM-ASDL Translator (see section 4.4) and UDDI Browser (see section 4.5): The SAM-ASDL Translator is developed to bridge the linkage between UDDI registries and the middle agent. In order to realize this linkage, a set of newly-defined tModels and APIs are elaborated. The provided APIs can help for converting service profiles between SAM-ASDL profile format and UDDI data structures. Besides, we can manipulate or search UDDI registries in WSDL or SAM-ASDL driven fashions through utilizing these APIs. By cooperating with the SAM-ASDL translator, the middle agent can advertise SAM-ASDL based service profiles to public UDDI registries and directly query web services published from them also. The UDDI Browser is an user interface to help users in browsing UDDI registries with previous fashions. Therefore, various MASs and web service infrastructure can cooperate with each other through the public UDDI registries. 4.1 Possibilistic Petri-Nets based Service Matchmaking Traditional service matchmaking is based on the key words search mainly. However, the services requested are always not the same as the services advertised. Using this approach will limit the quality of matched services and doesn't utilize the benefit of semantics. For coping with some degrees of partial and semantic matchmaking, we use Possibilistic Petri nets (PPN) [18] and PPN-ASDL matchmaking algorithm [19] as a mechanism to improve the quality of service matchmaking. A typical interpretation of Petri nets (see figure 3) is to view a place IP(r) or OP(r) as a condition, a transition ti as the causal connectivity of conditions, and a token in a place as a fact used to claim the truth of the condition associated with the place. For example, suppose there is a hotel service agent assisting users in reserving a hotel on line. The location of the hotel is in Taipei City and the room type it provides is a twin. Thus the hotel service agent and a request agent are shown in the figures 3(a) and 3(b), respectively. Two input places describe the preconditions of this service, and the output place denotes the situation after performing this service. We can put a token in each input place to signify that the preconditions are truth, and then fire the transition to perform this service. The tokens in input places are taken

away and a token is put in the output places to show the results after performing this service. Note that the confidence about the connectivity of conditions and the facts can be uncertain.

Figure 3. (a) A service agent, (b) A request agent

Possibilistic Petri-nets (PPN) [18] is an extension of Petri-nets with the capability to add possibility  and necessity N measures on the possibilistic tokens and possibilistic transitions. It uses possibility distributions over all places and tokens to display the uncertainty about possible locations of a token before receiving certain information. The calculation of (N, ) of corresponding possibilistic tokens and possibilistic transitions is based on the possibilistic reasoning. Figure 4 is a representation of matching request with service in PPN-ASDL. The general description of the matchmaking algorithm is: (1) construct the PPN for the request and the service, (2) create new possibilistic transitions between corresponding places in these two PPNs, (3) put a possibilistic token in each input places of request, (4) fill in the initial (N, ) of each possibilistic tokens and possibilistic transitions, and (5) fire the transitions and calculate the (N, ) of the remaining possibilistic tokens and possibilistic transitions according to the possibilistic reasoning rule. The (N, ) of the possibilistic token in the output place of the request will be the confidence degree that the service can satisfy the request. Refer to [19] for more detail about this algorithm.

Figure 4. Matching request with service in PPN-ASDL

