202

International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 7, No. 4, December 2005

agents reside in. Some MASs will further classify these agents into different types or roles by separating some complex tasks for agents to perform. For example, service agents, request agents, and middle agents can be defined from views of different roles involved in a service lifecycle. Service Types: A service can be a task or a resource delivered by a network node which is needed by others in an open environment. Although software agents are the main sources of the theses services in an MAS, services can still be classified into different types according to the technologies used in different systems to provide them. For example, Web services and legacy system, such like database system, are good sources of services for an MAS. ASDL/ACDL: ASDL (Agent Service Description Language) or ACDL (Agent Capability Description Language) is used to provide a specification to describe capabilities of agents or other types of services and to facilitate service publishing and requesting. Almost all of MASs ave their own SDL (service description language) to expose their own features based on its agent modeling, service types, matchmaking mechanism, or query processing style. Mediation Infrastructure: Besides agents that provides services for other ones, there should be an infrastructure to realize the mediation protocol used in the MAS. Some kinds of special agents, like middle agents, or other foundation constructs are playing the role to mediate among agents. Matching Feature: There could be various of matching mechanisms that exhibit different matching behaviors to find appropriate services against the requests. Mechanisms frequently used are exactly matching, structural/syntactic matching, and similarity/partitial matching. Matching Algorithm: Different technologies can be leveraged to realize the matching mechanisms just mentioned. Each technology has it own features to fit in with the special needs of each MAS. Heterogeneous Interoperability: In order to integrate with different environments beyond the targeted MASs, some MASs also tackle with the interoperability issue in the development of MASs. Interoperators, wrappers, or translators are such components that can be used to realize the interoperability between heterogenous environment.

3. SAM: A Service-Oriented Architecture for Multi-agents
As an attempt towards the construction of an MAS infrastructure to better integrate agents, web applications and information sources, we begin with the devise of a service matchmaker based on the formation of possibilistic reasoning [18], and an extension of our previous work on a PPN-based agent service description language (PPN-ASDL) [19] together with a set of ontologies for semantics matching, then gradually proliferate to the integration of web infrastructure with the SAM-ASDL translator that utilizes our newly-defined tModels in UDDI registry, and provide an easy access via a tool bar in the client browser, called SmartAgent bar, to the multi-agent system for the query processing, and finally conceive the notion of composite service agents capable of the composition of agents, web applications and information resources. Refer to figure 1 for an overview of SAM.

Figure 1. An Overview of the SAM Architecture

On the client site, a browser with SmartAgent bar is established to facilitate the users in issuing their queries and in utilizing services provided in SAM. The adoption of Internet browsers makes easy the design of SAM in a more flexible way to immerse within the existing Internet-based environments. Users can thus obtain their services through a browser as usual. The web service infrastructure is an environment built upon industrial web standards including SOAP, WSDL and UDDI. SOAP services can be deployed in SOAP servers, described by WSDL documents, and then published in UDDI registry. We have developed a set of SOAP services in the ATIS application (see section 5), for example, E-Map, Shortest Path, Parking Lot, and etc. Inside the multi-agent system, there are three types of agents: middle agents, request agents and service agents. Service agents provide services. Request agents work together with service agents to obtain the services requested. Agents that help find the relevant service

