ASPECT-ENHANCED GOAL-DRIVEN SEQUENCE DIAGRAM

725

Figure 7. Flexibility handling state machine.

tasks an aspect is intended to perform while weaving into the system. It is deﬁned as aspectual behaviors to embody the crosscutting concerns represented by aspects. In state transition diagrams, we use the action/ or activity for the execution of these crosscutting concerns that may occur while entering, leaving, or during a state. For example, Figure 7 shows a partial state transition diagram of the weaver for the meeting scheduler system. The state transits from "inspection" to "allow to set preferences" while the event of "replan" occurs. The "insert" weaving operator can be applied to the object that being inspected at the time that the state has been entered. Aspectual behavior described in the state is then being woven into the base object. If there is no more event, it will return to "inspection" state for weaving other aspects when appropriate events arrive. 4.2. State-Based Join Point Model ESJPM uses the aspectual state transitions, state entries, states duration, and state exits of the aspectual state machine to identify the join points during the system execution. Using state guard conditions as a controlling mechanism, the state of the aspect changes when the guard condition is satisﬁed, which helps to locate the join point where aspectual behaviors should be superimposed on the woven behavior. The superimposed activities can be speciﬁed in four places, namely entry activities, exit activities, ongoing do activities, and activities attached to a state transition diagram, in the aspectual state machine. An aspectual activity that are partially realized the aspect may be attached to a state transition diagram. When the trigger of the transition is satisﬁed, the transition is ﬁred and the aspectual activity attached on the transition is performed, then the source state is deactivated and the target state is activated. An ongoing do activity may be associated with an aspectual state. The do activity is executed as long as the aspectual state is active. Alternately, ongoing
International Journal of Intelligent Systems DOI 10.1002/int

