726

LEE ET AL.

activity may be modeled by a pair of actions, an entry activity that starts the do activity on entry to the state, and an exit activity that terminates the do activity on the exit point of the state.

5. MEETING SCHEDULER SYSTEM: AN EXAMPLE To demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed approach, the meeting scheduler system11 that has been adopted as a benchmark by Potts et al.,27 which illustrates typical requirements and real system problems is being analyzed and speciﬁed with aspect-enhanced goal-driven sequence diagrams to show how the proposed approach helps to address the afore-mentioned issues on aspect weaving in AOSD. In the meeting scheduler example, the purpose of this system is to support the scheduling of organization meetings, that is, to determine, for each meeting request, a meeting date and location so that most of the intended participants can participate the meeting. The meeting date and location should be as convenient as possible to all participants. The system should assist meeting initiators in replanning a meeting dynamically to support ﬂexibility. For example, participants should be allowed to modify their exclusion set, preference set, or preferred location before a meeting date or location is proposed. The system should also support conﬂict resolution according to resolution policies stated by the meeting initiator. Physical constraints should not be broken, for example, a person should not be in two different meetings at the same time. After analyzing the meeting scheduler system, 15 goals are identiﬁed among which six early aspects are discovered, which gives an aspect-enhanced GDUC diagram as shown in Figure 8. An early aspect is represented as a rounded rectangle and its associated use case is identiﬁed to realize the early aspect. A textual notation for representing an early aspect and its associated goals (i.e., goals being crosscut by the early aspect) is speciﬁed as the following: Aspecta : (U Cu , [G1 , G2 , . . . , Gn ]) where Aspecta denotes the name of the early aspect; UCu denotes the use case that realizes the early aspect with recurring properties or important stakeholders' concerns; and [G1 , G2 , . . . , Gn ] denotes the goals that are crosscut by the early aspect, which could be more than two goals in the square bracket. For example, AspectSF : (U CHandleFlexibility , [GMP , GMR , . . . , GSF ]) means that the aspect AspectSF is to be realized by the use case UCHandleFlexibility and crosscuts three goals, namely, GMP , GMR , GSF , GMP denotes the goal to plan a meeting, GMR denotes the goal to replan a meeting, and GSF denotes the goal to support ﬂexibility.
International Journal of Intelligent Systems DOI 10.1002/int

